# Survey-Data
Coding Assignment 1 
Project goal: 
The purpose of this project was to evaluate any possible relationship between media consumption and academic performance amongst undergrad students at UT Austin. The data was collected by creating a survey on Google Forms. This survey was then sent to different student organizations at UT Austin for undergraduates to complete. The survey asked questions such as "what is your gpa", "what is your major gpa", and "what is your cumulative hours" to gauge academic performance factors and then the survey also asked about how many movies students had watched in the last month to get a sense of their media consumption. Some issues with this data collection method is that it didn't do a good job of randomizing which cohorts of students had access to this survey. There were also some issues with making sure the answers were equally distributed by grade level and school so the data definitely did have some bias in it. The data types used in this project were categorical and numerical values. The Student Names (students' first and last name), School Names (colleges at UT), and the Grade Levels (academic year classification) are all categorical values. The numerical variables include the GPA (calculated from points assigned to each class students take at a university with a maximum scale of 4.0), major GPA (the GPA calculated only from classes in a student's individual major course plan), and the cumulative hours (amount of hours students have taken at a university). After the data was collected, the data was formatted into csv format and then uploaded onto a colab notebook for data processing. Though the data was already pretty clean, the data was processed to remove any duplicates and also replace any missing numerical values with the mean value. Then the data was formatted into different graphs that showcased various relationships between different variables. For example, a correlation coefficient and scatter plot was created to showcase any potential correlation between GPA and number of movies watched which showed that there wasn't a strong correlation at all. Another diagram, a bar graph, was created to visually showcase the potential effect of a categorical variable, school name, on the amount of movies watched. My descriptive statistics were a bit surprising because I had asssumed that lower media consumption would lead to a higher GPA but this was not necessarily the case. I also assumed that being in a less intensive STEM school would lead to more movies watched but this was also not the case. In summary, I concluded that there wasn't a strong relationship between media consumption which contradicted my hypothesis. 

To reproduce this project, one can either create their own survey or use the preexisting dataset. The dataset should then be cleaned by ensuring that there are no duplicate values or missing values. The processed dataset can then be uploaded to a Colab or Jupyter notebook for statistical and visual analysis. Based on whether or not the data types are categorical or numerical, visual graphs can be chosen to create. If the relationship between two numericals need to be determined, use a scatter plot or line graph (if you need to see progressional data). If there are categorical values involved try considering a bar graph! This code and visuals can then be pushed to your git repository to ensure that the data is stored properly! 
